# If You Want to Build a Community, First Define Community

Before embarking on this quest to build an online community, it will
be helpful to actually have a working definition of "community." As a
first step, here's a quote from Peter Block's book Community: The
Structure of Belonging:

> We are in community each time we find a place where we belong.

That definition is intuitively satisfying. If you ask yourself, "Do I
ever simultaneously feel like I'm part of a community and that I don't
belong?" the answer will be no (unless you're in a disagreeable mood
or you're fond of splitting hairs, which is really just being
perpetually disagreeable). 

But this answer is just moving the goal posts because it leaves us
with another question: what causes you to feel like you belong in a
community? I think the answer has two parts:

* You feel understood
* You feel accepted

## Feeling Understood

I think it's human nature to seek the company of others who share your
interests or your circumstances. When you know that someone has gone
through the same or similar experiences, you're confident that they
can understand you. The need to be understood is probably one of our
deepest needs.

For example, I enjoy being part of programmer communities because it's
gratifying to feel understood as a programmer. It's gratifying to
share the unique trials and tribulations of my profession with others
who completely get where I'm coming from. It's nice to share things
that interest me with other people without causing their eyes to glaze
over. Similarly, it's fun to hear about others' experiences.

As a more somber example, years ago I attended a group meeting for
people who were taking care of a chronically ill loved one. As a
caretaker, I felt that people who hadn't been in that situation really
couldn't understand what an intense trial it was, and I felt compelled
to seek the company of others in a similar situation.

Whether it's a deep and abiding interest in typography or grappling
with uncommon circumstances, we all have uncommon facets of ourselves
that we want others to understand.

## Feeling Accepted

Perhaps more important than being understood is being accepted. I'm
sure there are evolutionary / biological reasons for this having to do
with social acceptance leading to the propagation of our species or
whatever. What's important is that this is another fundamental human
need.

We feel accepted when others acknowledge our worthiness as a human being.
